foreign
it's well known as the best accelerator
in the world YC is still the best shot
at starting a company think of the
accelerator as the undergraduate program
and continuity is the graduate school
now we have a full machine all the way
to IPO
what makes YT is the community is the
founder Community we want to help that
young founder help them build the
confidence that they can do it it's very
hard to compare YC to a venture file we
actually know our Founders from day one
what we look for is how fast does the
founder move enable entrepreneurship
globally that's a mission there are just
way more Founders starting amazing
companies everywhere in the world YC
needs to scale
so just a minute on YC I think you many
of you know why she's you know well
known as one of the best accelerators I
helped lead our growth fund the
continuity fund along with Ali rogani we
launched it seven years ago at YC and we
con since then on we continue to support
YC companies well after the accelerator
program both through batch programming
help helping CEOs learn how to scale as
well as through Investments
so what are the five critical learnings
for founders
and I actually went back with our team
and reflected on all our notes of some
of the most successful YC companies
so the first learning that I want to
focus on is a very important one but
something that you probably have heard
many times
is the product good enough
many startups usually assume
fundraising as a signal or an
endorsement that you have a good product
that's the number one mistake most
Founders do so we see that at YC demo
day companies from the batch raise one
and a half million dollars they think
they have product Market fit all they go
on to raise the series a 18 months later
and they think they have product Market
fit
but most of them actually don't have a
good enough product
and so when you start scaling before you
have a good product it's quite deadly
you know Tom blomfield who is now a
visiting partner but a two-time YC
founder said this very eloquently if you
hire too fast before you have product
Market fit now you have a bunch of
people whose jobs depend on you not
changing the product
and that's why your product is not going
to be good enough
versus when you have very few people
really focused on is the product good
enough then you have a shot at making it
really better and the money you raised
will last you longer and so you have
more time to experiment
so the example that I want to give you
here is one from Mutiny I don't know how
many of you are familiar with Mutiny it
helps you personalize websites it's a
B2B startup that went through YC a few
years ago started by Julie who's one of
the co-founders
so you know she said you know
pre-lockdown
the product was amazing
right a lot you know a lot of because
what happened pre-lockdown it was a hot
Market all the startups were funded very
well so if you were a B2B startup or
even a b2c startup with a lot of cash
you were okay with your teams buying as
many SAS tools as possible spending as
much money because in your p l it didn't
really impact that much and so a lot of
B2B startups saw good Revenue growth
High willingness to pay then the
lockdown happened
and what happened suddenly these
startups that did not see much churn saw
15 churn
15 percent
so was the product really good enough
was it as valuable
no because if it was really valuable
they would pay for it no matter what the
market cycle is right so the way you
test for is the product good enough this
is where I'll break it down you have to
ask really three questions there are
multiple questions and there are nuances
but for most companies it boils down to
three questions so what are the three
questions
one you should go ask your customer
if my product goes away tomorrow
how disappointed will you be
somewhat disappointed or very
disappointed
and if at least 40 percent of your
customers
don't say very disappointed
you probably don't have a good enough
product it's just moderately appealing
so we say a rule of thumb is at least 40
percent of your customers will be very
disappointed if your product goes away
so that's one way to test
second way to test is you should know
yourself how often you expect your
customer to use the product so in the
case of mutiny Jale said I expect my
customers to experiment it with
experiment with the product or run
experimentations at least few times a
month
if it's few times a month and you go
back and study your customer data and go
and figure out all those customers who
are not using the product that often
they are at high degree of risk no
matter what they tell you
and so the second question you have to
ask is usage how often do you expect the
customers to use it and how does that
actually con you know compare to reality
the third trick you can use is growth
tricky part about growth you can buy
growth so it looks good
so the way to really look at growth is
if you have a self-serve model which
quite a few B2B startups do is your
inbound through the roof
if your product is really good you
probably are not going to be able you
don't have enough people on your team to
respond to inbound queries that's when
you have strong product Market fit if
it's once a week
or maybe like five inbounds a month
probably not good enough
if you have a outbound sales motion
especially as a young B2B startup
then you should really look at Pipeline
and conversion so one of the things
jelly did was
am I at least converting 20 of my
customers
when I do a demo
because if it's far less than 20 maybe
it's not that good enough because think
about it if you're doing 100 demos a
month that's 20 customers and if you
can't even convert 20 then you have to
ask yourself is the product really good
what's it what's it missing what would
it take for it to become valuable
and by the way this step is so important
throughout the life of your startup
another mistake I see companies do is
they will hit a certain product Market
fit and then they've gone on to scale
and they forgot to ask this question to
their earliest customers so if there's
one thing I'd like you all to take away
is make sure you ask this question every
year to every team member to your sales
team if you have customer service reps
is the product really good enough and
find tangible ways to measure that's the
number one mistake we see most funders
do especially post seed or cdsa
the second mistake
which we've seen pretty much hundred
percent of YC companies do including the
founder who's going to talk after me
which is Josh at Guster you should ask
him
is
they all underprice
because think about it you you've worked
so hard to get a product out of the door
you finally have 10 or 15 customers and
you're like wow geez I want to grow it
to 100 customers so maybe I should just
charge them like five dollars a month
right that's the number two mistake we
see now people often ask me
okay are startups on average
underpricing by 30 40 let me give you a
story
Peter Reinhardt from segment
I'm sure many of you are aware of
segment if not you should look it up
it's an absolutely amazing product to
collect unify and keep your date
customer data in one place
they pretty much graduated from MIT and
through a random pivot landed on this
idea and their first module was an
analytics GIS module and they come from
the open source mentality
so when they hit product Market fit they
had enough customers using their product
weekly
consistently but they were paying
nothing because these guys didn't ask
for anything
they didn't charge for it
and so but they had hundred thousand
dollars
from YC and you know no matter even
though it was just three co-founders and
maybe one or two Engineers the money was
running out
and so at some point they said wow we
have to charge something but they felt
so bad to charge so they profusely
apologized sent very long apologetic
emails asking for ten dollars a month
in fact I think their first price point
was five dollars a month until one
customer wrote back to them and said you
better charge more because otherwise I
think you're not serious enough to build
a company and then I don't want to you
know put all my data on this platform
which is not serious enough to build a
business
that was the wake-up call for Peter
it's like wow me not charging they
assumed I'm not here to build a company
and they don't want to trust us with
their customer data
but they still kept it for a while ten
dollars a month so 120 a year until they
hired a sales advisor
and the sales advisor looked into their
product and said you should be charging
120 000 a year for this product that's
how valuable your product is Peter said
there's no way no way I'm charging 120.
so the challenge he gave him was okay
the next sales meeting you're gonna do
which was not Friedman at the time he
was the CEO of shamarin you're gonna ask
him for hundred and twenty thousand
dollars a year and if you don't I'll
quit as your sales advisor that's what
it took to convince Peter to make the
ask Peter made the ask Nat said I'll pay
you twelve thousand dollars a year and
they settled at eighteen thousand
dollars a year after that meeting
that was a hundred and fifty times
the original price Peter had sat with a
ten dollar per month
that's how much B2B startups under price
and this is true you can see that with
gusto they underpriced the first two
years it's very nerve-wracking but I
often say the price is often the way to
test if truly you've built something
valuable because if you have and your
customer is going to be very
disappointed about you disappearing they
actually won't blink twice and so the
best way I often tell you tell Founders
to test is increase your price by 30
percent
and if your customer is not blinking
twice then you probably have underpriced
a lot and you can keep testing it
especially with your early customers
until you land at a price point that
makes sense but know that you know I I
can tell with a very high degree of
confidence that most B2B startups at
ycee have underpriced and so there's a
long ways to go before you can charge
where your customer is going to cringe
the third most common mistake I see
especially at the earlier stages
companies do is they can rarely serve
all B2B customers well
p2b is so broad when you say I'm a B2B
startup who are you really selling to
tech companies is Broad you have
startups with less than 50 employees you
have mid-market startups with 50 to 100
200 employees and you have late State
startups like stripe and you know then
you have public companies like Airbnb
you really need to be nuanced you can't
sell to everyone this is another mistake
I often see Founders do especially when
they go right after YC demo day oh we
have signed up eight customers or 10
customers three look like this five look
like others and and two from a different
and they all have different product
needs
and so I think it's very at the earliest
stages it's okay to iterate but you have
to land pretty quickly on what's the
segment so my partner Michael siebel has
a very easy phrase
don't try and say it's SMB or startup
figure out who are your easy customers
as it is it's so difficult to build a
startup so when you're starting out
figure out who are your easy customers
so figure out for whom whatever Bare
Bones MVP have built is more than enough
and they're very happy and you start
with them
for Brax it was startups because
Founders couldn't get a credit card that
easily so instead of going and solving
for all the people in the world the
first segment was startups
for Gusto it was SMB the payroll
software that they built
could service any company with less than
10 employees
that's it's not SMB any kind of SMB as
long as you have less than 10 employees
our payroll software will work it
doesn't work for us
so figure out what your Niche is and
remember as you scale
it's really hard to again service
multiple segments so I'll use the
example of Gusto so for the first entire
year
I was actually shocked at the stat can
anyone guess how many customers Gusto
had
any guesses
two thousand
fifty that's a wide range
what's that
one million okay from your mouth to
God's ears we still have to hit a
million but
um they had hundreds
100.
NPS of 80.
30 month-on-month growth
of course you're coming off a small base
the growth rates are really good but 100
why only 100 well a it's really
difficult to reach Assamese they're not
online now they are more online but they
were not online when Gusto started
second
you cannot make a mistake in payroll you
can't say move fast and break things if
your paycheck isn't arrived guess what
your customer is going to say and
payroll is a very difficult software to
build so that's why they took the time
to build and they wanted to make sure
that the 100 customers that they worked
with were delighted by their service now
two years in they knew that they should
roll benefits as they were scaling their
customer segments and supporting you
know companies with less than 25
employees it took them almost a year to
launch benefits it didn't take off
why
any guesses
go ahead
people just taught them as Fair well
initially it was Zen Peril but they
changed the name to Gusto which helped
them
any other gases
different what sorry
different profile actually it's it's
more than different profile it is a
different profile but the customer that
wanted benefits wanted more
they just didn't want payroll plus
benefits they wanted 401K they wanted so
your sales it's not like your sales team
was underperforming the customer segment
their needs are different so therefore
it's really important that when you're
scaling as a B2B startup every startup
segment that you focus on you got to
come from the customer lens what does
that customer needs and it may be
fundamentally different from the product
you're offering you may not have the
time to build all their features and
that's okay take the time to do it but
be deliberate if you assume that just
adding a feature will help you scale to
the next segment that doesn't work that
doesn't work eight out of ten times you
may get lucky with the one or two but
that doesn't work 8 out of 10 times
the fourth common mistake this is
actually one of my favorites
is
early sales should not be delegated
I see so many startups
when they hit one and a half million AR
they're on their way to hire the VP of
sales
and if I ask them to explain how exactly
are you going to tell the sales how
exactly do you expect the salesperson to
go acquire customers the Founder's
response would be well that's what I'm
hoping they would tell me
that's not their job
you hire a salesperson when your sales
call and demo calls become extremely
boring and repetitive because that's
when you figure out what your
go-to-market motion is remember in the
early days the point number one I made
is your product good enough you don't
even know that you have to do 100 to 200
customer calls customer conversion to
know whether your product is good enough
when you're 150th demo call is boring
and you know exactly how it's going to
go and you know they're going to convert
that's when you go hire a sales leader
usually I would I mean Christina Advanta
actually did this extremely well she
said she did it up to the point where
she knew that week which customer calls
we're going to convert how the demo call
was going to go what questions they were
going to ask and what her answers were
going to be and she had one to two sales
you know sdrs or sales account you know
it's one of two sales reps helping her
and she knew even how to train them
that's when she understood that it was
critical to hire a VP of sales because
we've now cracked I have we found a way
to repeatedly sell the product and we
know exactly how to do this that we can
now hire a VP of sales who can build up
the sales team help scale up the sales
motion so that we can reach thousands of
customers if you do this step
prematurely it's not your salesperson's
fault
that you couldn't grow the most common
mistake is you hire a VP of sales
they've cranked up your team you have
all these sales accountants but your
growth is slow
and the root cause of that is not that
the sales motion isn't working your
product is not appealing enough so I
often tell Founders one of our most
critical advice at YC is
do the sales till it becomes so boring
that you know how to predict that's when
you hire your first sales leader
and then the last learning which last
but not the least is the most important
plan to reach default alive
I have never understood why so many B2B
startups are so reliant on external
investment funding
there is no I mean there is some reason
for some of them but actually if you
look at it critically and closely
many of them should be able to scale
without any funding
I usually say if you have hit five to
ten million ARR you cannot get killed
you should be default alive
and so what is default to life if you
are not familiar with this term
I highly recommend that you read Paul
Grant's blog post this is something that
YC takes very seriously in fact when you
graduate from the YC batch it's part of
your monthly investor update if you
answer this as default debt it's kind of
shaming you into how to get this to
default alive so what's default align if
you are eight to nine months or even 15
months into building your startup and
you have decent Revenue scale
then the question is okay how soon
before you become profitable
now why is this important
especially some Founders will tell me
hey there are investors waiting to give
me money why should I care about this
well most people are not familiar with
this term which is called the Fatal
pinch does anyone know we've actually
talked about this quite publicly but I
don't know how many of you know the
Fatal pinch
anyone here how many of you know it
raise your hand if you know what is the
Fatal pinch
okay two two elfino so let me tell you
what the Fatal pinch is the Fatal
pinches you raised a bunch of money
you hired a bunch of your team members
but your growth is less than 10 month on
month
and you don't have enough Runway all the
time to experiment
and no one's going to give you more
money
that's the Fatal pinch
versus if you have raised money spent
the least amount on hiring
and you're really finding a way to make
money remember charge don't underprice
charge enough so that it supports your
CAC
should be on your way to at least break
even
and so we often encrypt startups to get
to default alive because then
you know what even most investors will
be willing to give you money because you
don't need money that's when investors
give you money when you don't need money
and you found a sustainable way to
acquire customers and support them with
their own with their own price that they
pay the revenues that you're making if
not you don't have a business model the
problem with not focusing on default
alive is you have not figured out the
business model that's the segment
problem it's all free You Know by the
way it's not the only company there's
another company that went through YC
called post hoc it was one of the most
successful open source product analytics
launch that they did through YC top
number one on Hacker News 30 000 signups
James was extremely confident that when
he turns on the paid subscription at
least five percent will convert guess
how many converted
you said 2 30.
30 people paid
and so then he went back to iterating on
the product and figuring out who other
easy customers how can I make sure I
built the most valuable thing for them
and then make if you built the most
valuable they'll pay and price
appropriately right and so when you do
those three things you will be on path
to default alive and so the success case
I know it sounds like a Survivor bias
but zapier made from zapier never
believed in fundraising and I think
that's why he hit default alive with one
and a half million he's never had to
raise money
he doesn't need to because he prints
cash he uses the cash to invest in the
company and then scale and I strongly
believe at YC we often say we wonder why
so many B2B startups are fundraising and
they're in this fundraising mode every
12 months they're back boasting their
evaluations and the numbers if in fact
I'd say you should be boasting your
Revenue number and he'll break even not
the valuation that's a vanity metric
that doesn't indicate anything
so I would say like the fifth mistake
most people do is plan to reach default
alive because it doesn't matter whether
it's 20 21 or 2022 or 2023 you are in
control of your destiny and it can be
done it may mean that you grow slightly
slower because you're not able to invest
in go to market ahead of time and that's
okay that's perfectly okay the key is do
you have a product
that lasts for decades for customers to
use and that's all that matters
so in summary if there are five things
again only five things that you can take
away from this presentation I'd say the
number one
is the product good enough
and make sure you ask this question
every six months for the life of your
company you are the only person as a
Founder who can do that no one will ask
that as often as you do
second price appropriately know that
almost all B2B startups are underpricing
so go try try and experiment go raise
the prices by 30 and see who flinches
and who is okay with it
three
companies can rarely serve all B2B
customers well so Focus especially early
on the easy customer iterate to figure
out who your easy customer is and just
try to acquire those easy customers
for do not delegate early sales
may try Founders should do sales until
it gets so repetitive and boring that
it's so predictable that's when you hire
for sales leader
and last but not the least plan to reach
default alive
try to bootstrap the company or get to
break even with the initial investment
so that you never have to rely on
external investors to scale your company
thank you everyone
foreign
[Music]